Working with JSCAD is very similar to how we work
with p5.js. In our code repository i provided you
two examples and two boilerplates for using JSCAD.
There's a normal example and a simple example. The
only difference is is that the simple example is
very minimal. It just contains the most important
bits. And for the beginning i recommend you use
the 3d-example, which is a lot more elaborate.
And to create a new project we simply use the same
way we used before. We copy our example folder
paste it in again, rename it,
let's call it first-3d-example.
And inside, similar to the p5.js one, we find a
couple of files already. The HTML file is similar
to p5.js. Simply all the things that need to be
loaded and done before our code can be executed
in the browser. The index.json file is an
informational file for the index.html. Don't
worry about that one. And the index.js is the
actual file that we are working with. And similar
to p5.js, we can use the live server extension
again to give us a preview of our 3D objects.
Remember, again, JSCAD is not made to create
really nice renderings and these kind of things.
But it's really for creating well-structured
objects that we can then use for fabrication
processes. In this preview we can now see
the object we have created through our code.
And there's a couple of nice features you can
add a grid and axes. So you can get a bit of
more orientation in your object. You can zoom in
and out out using your mouse or your trackpad.
You can rotate your object. And there's even
a little function up here, a box you can take,
to auto rotate your object. To inspect it from
all sides. The most important bit is up here,
this is the export feature. Here we can export
our 3D object in a couple of different formats.
STL is probably the format you will need, because
it can be imported into almost any 3D application.
So you can then for example
prepare it for 3D printing.
Have one thing in mind, as we edit our code and
when we save it, the website is automatically
reloaded, like we already know it from the p5.js
examples. But all the settings you make in the
preview system are not restored. So the rotation,
the zoom, anything is reset once you reload the
page. This is important to keep in mind. So
inside our boilerplate we have some things
that are very familiar to us, because they're very
similar to p5.js. But some things are different.
First off, in p5.js we had setup and draw, to
structure how our objects are being generated.
In JSCAD we simply have the "main" function.
Inside main we can create our objects
and at the end of the function we need to
return what should be rendered in the end.
Here we can return a single object or an array of
objects, that should be rendered in the preview.
Then in p5.js we have global variables and global
functions where all the p5.js functionality is
provided for us. Here we need to import the JSCAD
library in the beginning of our code, so that we
can use it afterwards. After importing importing
the library in the first line, we can now access
all the functionality through the variable we
stored it in. For example to get access to a cube
object we could write jscad.primitives.cube and
now for example provide it with a size parameter
and now we have a 3D cube, that we
can use for further transformations.
But writing this long bit of code is not very
effective. So i added a few lines of code up here,
where i take, from the depth of the library,
jscard.primitives, individual functions and store
them in individual variables, so that instead of
jscad.primitives.cube, we can simply write "cube".
You don't need to use these shortcuts that i
added here in the first lines of the boilerplate,
but it makes writing the code a lot
more cleaner and a lot more effective.
One last bit of information regarding
JSCAD that is different to p5.js.
In p5js most of the functions took some kind
of parameters to create the objects. For
example for a rectangle we were providing
the x and y parameter for the position
and we were providing width and height
to define how big our rectangle is. JSCAD
instead of several parameters, we just provide
one object and inside the object we can have one
or multiple attributes and values to generate then
the objects. In this case here, we have one object
with the size key and a value 50. And in the next
line for the sphere object, we have an object
with three different keys and according values.
This is somehow different to how we generated the
object or called our functions in p5.js. Although
the functionality and how these functions are
built is actually the same, it's just different
design idea of how to generate those functions.